[DOCS] JWT doc enhancements (#86411)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/authorization/run-as-privilege.asciidoc

[source,sh]
----
curl -H "es-security-runas-user: jacknich" -u es-admin -X GET http://localhost:9200/
----

The `run_as` user passed in through the `es-security-runas-user` header must be
a username from a realm that supports lookup. Because the Kerberos, OpenID
Connect, PKI, and SAML realms don't support user lookup, these realms can't use
`run_as` directly. However, users that authenticate from one of these realms can
run requests on behalf of users from the `native`, `file`, LDAP, and Active
Directory realms. For example, an OIDC user can authenticate to {es} and submit
requests as a `run_as` user in the `native` realm. {es} will retrieve the
indicated `runas` user and submit the request using their roles.

[[run-as-privilege-apply]]
== Apply the `run_as` privilege to roles
You can apply the `run_as` privilege when creating roles with the
<<security-api-put-role,create or update roles API>>. Users who are assigned
a role that contains the `run_as` privilege inherit all privileges from their
role, and can also submit requests on behalf of the indicated users.

The `run_as` privilege essentially operates like a secondary form of

> <<authorization_realms,delegated authorization>>. After a user successfully

Reviewer: A key difference is:
- Delegated authorization applies to the first user who is authenticated.
- Run-as applies to the second user who is being impersonated.

A side goal for me is to figure out a way to call them both Delegated Authorization, but with qualifiers that help illustrate the similarities and differences. Some ideas might be:
- Primary User Delegated Authorization, Authenticated User Authorization Delegation
- Secondary User Delegated Authorization, Run-as Delegated Authorization, Impersonated User Authorization Delegation

}
----

Next, we'll create an analyst role named `my_analyst_role`, which has `monitor`
cluster privileges and `manage` privileges on a subset of indices.

[source,console]
----
POST /_security/role/my_analyst_role?refresh=true
{
  "cluster": [ "monitor"],
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": [ "index1", "index2" ],
      "privileges": ["manage"]
    }
  ],
  "applications": [
    {
      "application": "myapp",
      "privileges": [ "read" ],
      "resources": [ "*" ]
    }
  ],
  "metadata" : {
    "version" : 1
  }
}
----

We'll create an administrator user and assign them the role named `my_admin_role`,
which allows this user to submit requests as the `analyst_user`.

[source,console]
----
POST /_security/user/admin_user?refresh=true
{
  "password": "l0ng-r4nd0m-p@ssw0rd",
  "roles": [ "my_admin_role" ],
  "full_name": "Eirian Zola",
  "metadata": { "intelligence" : 7}
}
----

We can also create an analyst user and assign them the role named
`my_analyst_role`.

[source,console]
----
POST /_security/user/analyst_user?refresh=true
{
  "password": "l0nger-r4nd0mer-p@ssw0rd",
  "roles": [ "my_analyst_role" ],
  "full_name": "Monday Jaffe",
  "metadata": { "innovation" : 8}
}
----

> You can then authenticate to {es} as the `admin_user` and submit requests on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then authenticate to {es} as the `admin_user` or `analyst_user`. However, the `admin_user` could optionally submit requests on
```

  "metadata" : {
    "version" : 1
  }
}
----

To submit a request as another user, you specify the user in the
`es-security-runas-user` request header. For example:

[source,sh]
----
curl -H "es-security-runas-user: jacknich" -u es-admin -X GET http://localhost:9200/
----

The `run_as` user passed in through the `es-security-runas-user` header must be
available from a realm that supports delegated authorization lookup by username. 
Realms that don't support user lookup can't use `run_as` directly. However, users 
that authenticate from one of these realms can run requests on behalf of users 
from other realms.

For example, a user in the JWT realm can authenticate to {es} and submit
requests as a `run_as` user in the `native` realm. {es} will retrieve the
indicated `runas` user and submit the request using their roles.

[[run-as-privilege-apply]]
== Apply the `run_as` privilege to roles
You can apply the `run_as` privilege when creating roles with the
<<security-api-put-role,create or update roles API>>. Users who are assigned
a role that contains the `run_as` privilege inherit all privileges from their
role, and can also submit requests on behalf of the indicated users.

> 

Author: Added this note in 32ba24f00dd7414cc843022bd8f92214e035367e.

<<ldap-realm-configuration,_user search_ mode>>. For Active Directory, you need
to <<ref-ad-settings,configure a `bind_dn` and `secure_bind_password`>>.

.Unsupported realms
****
The Kerberos, OpenID Connect, PKI, and SAML realms do not support _run as_.
Additionally, the `run_as` privilege is supported only when authenticating with
the `native` or JWT realms, or when using API keys. Tokens that are created with
the <<security-api-get-token,get token API>> are incompatible with the `run_as`
privilege because OAuth2 tokens do not support this privilege.

> ****

Reviewer 2: Making the unsupported realms more salient is good, I guess.
I think the list also include the JWT realm, isn't it @justincr-elastic ?

But I don't think that we should lump in the token mention under the "Unsupported realms" section.
This is a very artificial limitation that is going away soon: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/86680

Reviewer 2: So maybe call it out in one of those "Note" sections, I would suggest.

on behalf of `jacknich` or `redeniro`:

[source,js]
----
{
  "run_as" : [ "jacknich", "rdeniro" ]
}
----

To submit a request as another user, you specify the user in the
`es-security-runas-user` request header. For example:

[source,shell]
----
curl -H "es-security-runas-user: jacknich"  -u es_admin -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/'
----

[[run-as-privilege-apply]]
== Apply the `run_as` privilege to roles

You can apply the `run_as` privilege when creating roles with the
<<security-api-put-role,create or update roles API>>. Users who are assigned
a role that contains the `run_as` privilege inherit all privileges from their
role, and can also submit requests on behalf of the indicated users.

> When <<authorization_realms,delegated authorization>> is disabled, {es} handles

Reviewer: This might be too specific to JWT realm. Sorry I did not make it clear for the general case.

In general, realms can support a broad list of options for role lookup.
1. Realm can do direct lookup of a user with predefined roles. Two sub-options are API or local file. Example is native realm users with predefined roles. Another is LDAP user lookup in an LDAP server. Users in a file is deprecated.
2. Realm can do indirect lookup via role mapping rules. Two sub-options are API or local file. Example is JWT or OIDC realms. Role mapping in a file is deprecated.
3. Realm can do delegated authorization (ex: JWT realm), which overrides options 1 & 2.

JWT realm supports 2 & 3. For option 2, the file sub-option was not implemented. The file option is only in a couple of realms.

Author: @justincr-elastic, let me know if [these changes](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/pull/86411/commits/03cdb74c908274a032a46ca3f9a1f34ccb4e03ae#diff-2aaf178d73325e46e4c68d44253ddd180e189bc3540304e2c0b0468d90a15ee2R46-R55) encapsulate what you are describing.

role mapping. If delegated authorization is enabled, {es} checks the defined

> roles for the `run_as` user in all configured realms. If the `run_as` privilege

Reviewer: ```suggestion
roles for the `run_as` privilege in all configured realms. If the `run_as` privilege
```
